XRouter - installation summary
==============================

There are two main components to be installed: program files and database. The
order whether to install the database first or the program files first is not
important. Just make sure you have the database prepared and accessible before
you start the services or the XRouter Configration manager GUI.

After the program files are installed the XRouter Service and XRouter Manager
have to be installed as Windows Services.

This is just a summary, up-to-date details can be found in the Administrator's
guide. Also please refer to this guide for details on configuration and
running the services and GUI.

Installing program files
------------------------

In order to install the program files and additional files into the operating 
system obtain and run the installer xrouter-setup.exe. Probably you will need 
administrator privileges to do the latter. There is not much surprising in the 
installer. First you have to accept the license. 

Select the location where XRouter should be installed. The default value depends 
on whether you are running 32-bit or 64-bit Windows, ie. C:\Program 
Files\XRouter or C:\Program Files (x86)\XRouter. Of course you can specify 
another location as well. 

Specify the components which should be installed. The Full installation is 
suitable for most purposes, while the compact installation only contains files 
needed to run the XRouter Service and XRouter Manager, eg. on a separate 
remotely configured node. Moreover, you can select an arbitrary configuration 
and dependencies should be handled properly by the installer. 

After the installation you can read the README file. The important commands are 
accessible from the Start Menu (named XRouter by default). 

Installing Windows services
---------------------------

If you plan to run XRouter and/or XRouter manager service, you should install 
each one as a Windows service. It just creates a new identifier, associates it 
with a command and some metadata. It does not copy any files. The installer does 
not do this automatically since you might want some different service names or 
multiple service instances. 

The easiest way is to click on the provided link in the Start Menu and run as 
Administrator: Install XRouter as Windows Service and Install XRouter Manager as 
Windows Service. Those links assume the default service names xrouter and 
xroutermanager. In case of multiple service instances or different names you 
have to use DaemonNT.exe directly: 

- run cmd.exe (as Administrator)
- cd C:\Program Files (x86)\XRouter (or your main installation directory)
- DaemonNT.exe install xrouter_service_name
- DaemonNT.exe install xrouter_manager_service_name

Please refer to the DaemonNT documentation for more details.

Installing database
-------------------

For most of the following operations it is best you use SQL Management studio 
which is a part of SQL Server, it is also assumed you are logged in the correct 
instance as an administrator. If you have more than one instance of Microsoft 
SQL Server on your server and the instance you intend to use for XRouter is not 
the default one, add the instance name into the connection string in DaemonNT 
configuration. 

First, make sure your instance of the MS SQL Server has remote logins allowed: 

- right-click on the connected instance in the Management Studio
- go to Properties/Security
- choose SQL Server and Windows Authentication Mode and hit OK

Then you need to run the CreateLogin script which will create the 
XRouter_AccessDB login used by the application that has the correct password 
(that you may want to change, but make sure it corresponds with the one in the 
connection string) and SID which is important for easier database deployment. 
Make sure the newly created login is set as enabled: 

- in the left panel expand Security/Logins
- right-click on the newly created login
- go to Properties/Status
- choose Login: Enabled, and hit OK

Then restore the provided .bak file and you are done, because thanks to the 
login having the corresponding SID as the login on the server the backup was 
made, all the security mappings are done automatically. To do the restore using 
Management Studio: 

- in the left panel right-click on Databases
- choose Restore database...
- in the dialog choose From device and click the “...” button
- in the new dialog add the location of the .bak file, click OK
- back in the previous dialog enter XRouter in the textbox labeled
  To database: and click OK

Further information about database usage may be found in the XRouter.Data
chapter of the Programmer’s Guide.
